A Brief History of the Sacred Image of White Tārā

‘The Wish-Fulfilling Wheel’

Of Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo’s residence, known as ‘The Garden of Immortality,’ in Dzongsar Monastery,
Derge, East Tibet

by Orgyen Tobgyal Rinpoche

Throughout his life, the great master Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo Kunga Tenpé Gyaltsen Pal Zangpo
had many visions of White Tārā, during which the wisdom deity actually dissolved into this
image. From time to time, she would deliver prophecies, grant teachings and advice, and
bestow empowerments by sending out miraculous rays of light, as well as inspiring countless
pure visions.

Khyentse Wangpo’s main students and heart-sons too, such as Jamgön Kongtrul Lodrö Thayé, Terchen
Chokgyur Lingpa and Tertön Sogyal, received blessings from this image directly and in
pure visions. This is clearly described in their own biographies and is also well known from
oral accounts.

There is also mention in the secret biography of the second Jamyang Khyentse, Chökyi Lodrö,
of how this image of White Tārā granted empowerments, delivered prophecies and bestowed the
blessings of longevity, and how other devoted students were able to receive advice from
it directly. It is also said that the crackling noise of a butter lamp placed before this
very image brought about the revelation of a terma. Therefore it is this very image, which
is so sacred and powerful, that has inspired countless pure visions over the years, and which
features in so many well-known stories.

In 1967, as the monastery was on the brink of destruction at the hands ofcommunist Chinese hostile
to the teachings, a devoted and quick-witteddisciple took the image from the wall,
concealing it carefully in a cloth, andplaced it in a secure location. Later, when the current
incarnation of thewish-fulfilling jewel, Dzongsar Khyentse Thubten Chökyi Gyatso, travelled
to the reconstructed Dzongsar monastery, the image was taken out and offered to him,
and then, after this auspicious event, it was brought to India.

This brief history, written in response to the request of the supreme tulkuSogyal Rinpoche,
and to mark the printing of one hundred thousand copies of this sacred image as a support
for those with fortunate karma, was composed by Orgyen Tobgyal, who remains under the compassionate
protection of the successive incarnations of the Jamgön Lama.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2000.