Burgeoning Benefit and Happiness
An Aspiration to be Reborn in the Land of Turquoise Leaves
revealed by Sera Khandro

namo guru arya tareye
Namo guru ārya tārāyai
rang nang nampar dakpé shying kham chok
My own perception is the supreme realm of perfect purity,
rangjung lhundrup ser gyi sa shyi dal
Self-arisen and spontaneously perfect, with a vast golden ground,
yenlak gyeden trü dang dzingbu khyil
Bathing waters and pools that possess the eight qualities,
shing dang metok drebu natsok min
Trees, flowers and fruits of many kinds,
cha dang ridak mangpö chödra drok
Birds and wild animals who proclaim the Dharma,
chok nam tamché dri sung pö ngé dang
The sweetest perfumed incense filling all directions,
lha yi pu dang pumo natsok kyi
And divine youths, male and female,
chöpa dumé taktu chö ching tö
Who constantly offer gifts and words of praise.
dé ü rinchen natsok chel tram ü
In the centre, upon a carpet of jewels,
bendurya lé drubpé shyal yé khang
Is an immense mansion of lapis lazuli,
rangjung podrang nyamga ta na duk
A spontaneously arisen palace, delightful to behold.
chi sal nang sal dru shyi go shyiwa
Transparent inside and out, it is square with four main doors,
ta bab chö khor gyaltsen duk dang ni
And has steps, porticoes, dharma-wheels, banners of victory, parasols,
gyen dang khoryuk tsen nyi rab dzok ü
Ornaments and all the proper surroundings and features.
ma chak kyön dral pé da gyépé teng
In its centre, upon a lotus and full moon symbolizing non-attachment and immaculate purity,
gyalwé tukjé lé trung pakma drol
Is noble Tārā, born from the victorious buddhas’ compassion.
ngo jang shyal chik chak nyi nyur shyi pal
She is blue-green, with one face and two hands — swift to act, peaceful and resplendent.
lhang nge lhen ne lham mer shyuk pa la
In vivid, radiant splendour, she presides.
khor du sangyé chang chub sempa dang
Surrounding her are buddhas and bodhisattvas,
drolma nyer chik bum trak khandrö kor
Her twenty-one forms, and hundreds and thousands of ḍākinīs,
sang ngak chö dra gyün ché mepar drok
All proclaiming the Dharma of Secret Mantra without interruption,
tukjé tsewa chenpö gong té rol
Their wisdom minds filled with great love and compassion.
dak sok di né tsé rab tamché du
Throughout this and all our future lives
jetsün ma khyö lhakpé lhar zung né
We will hold you, precious Lady, as our special deity.
go sum chik dril dépé solwa dep
And with body, speech and mind in unison, devotedly pray:

chi na sor chang chöpa kyong tsul dang
Outwardly maintaining the conduct of individual liberation and the bodhisattvas,
nang na zabmo dorje tekpa yi
And inwardly manifesting the supreme path of the two stages
ma nor rim nyi lam chok ngön gyur né
Of the profound Vajra vehicle, without error,
nyur du dü shyi'i yul lé gyalwar dzö
Let us swiftly gain victory in the battle over the four māras.

kyi dam duk gam lek nyé chi jung yang
In happiness or sorrow, whatever befalls us, good or bad,
jetsün drolma khyerang khyen lakpé
O precious Tārā, care for us!
dak gyü min ching drolwé tu nü tsol
Grant us the power and capacity to mature and liberate our own minds!

lamé tekpé lam chok la shyuk tsé
From the moment we set out upon the supreme path of the unsurpassed vehicle,
nyam tok yönten gong du pelwa dang
Cause our qualities of experience and realization to grow!
göl chuk mepé sa lam ngön gyur né
Help us to attain the paths and stages without going astray!
rang rig ösal ngang lé mi yowar
And, without ever wavering from the clear light of our own awareness,
kadak kuntu zangpor sangyé shok
To attain enlightenment as the primordially pure Samantabhadra!

dor na dak dang tayé semchen kun
In short, may I and all other beings, infinite in number,
jetsün ma khyö yi la sampa yi
By thinking of you, O precious Tārā,
kyewa shyen gyi bar ma chöpa ru
Be reborn directly, without an intervening birth,
shying chok yulo kö du kyewar shok
In the supreme Land of Turquoise Leaves!

shying der kyé né lungten rab tob té
And, having taken birth there, receive the prophecy of enlightenment.
dül ka dül chir trinlé gyatso yi
Then, through vast, ocean-like activity to tame the difficult,
gang la gang dül dé la der tün gyi
May we guide others, each according to their needs,
kham sum khorwa dong truk nüpar shok
And thereby empty the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths.

chönyi nampar dakpé denpa dang
Through the truth of the utterly pure dharmatā
chöchen gyudré lumé denpa yi
And the infallible reality of cause and effect,
mönpé dön la barché mi jung shying
May there be no obstacle to the fulfilment of this aspiration,
nyur du ré dré yong su drub gyur chik
And may all our wishes swiftly come to perfect fruition.

di na gyun du tsön gyur na
By exerting yourself in this continually
lhamo chok gi jé zung né
You will be accepted by the supreme deity,
chiwé lam la mi töpar
And, independently of the dying process,
ösal gongpa ngön gyur né
Manifest the realization of clear light,
chökü tensi zin gyur ro
Seizing the stronghold of the dharmakāya.

Protector Rematī, watch over this:
Let there be the right karma and good fortune!
Samaya. Gya. Gya. Gya.

The vajra-holder who practices in retreat, Lhundrup Rigdzin, the intelligent Wangmo, and the
devoted student Chöying Dorje offered a sky-gleaming rosary and silken scarves, and made
repeated requests. In response, merely to avoid turning them down, I, the lazy and dissolute
Kunzang Chönyi Wangmo (aka Dewe Dorje), deciphered this in the Sera hermitage. The scribe
was the prophesied one, Tsultrim Dorje. May virtue abound.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2017.

Version 1.2-20211021