Prayer to Reverend and Noble Tārā
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama jetsün pakma drolma yi
Reverend guru, noble Tārā,
tukjé chenpö jesu gong dzé la
Guide us in your great compassion.
dak dang tayé semchen tamché kün
Cause me and all sentient beings, who are infinite in number,
lé ngen drib dak tsok nyi dzokpa dang
To purify our negative actions, complete the two accumulations,
jam dang nyingjé changchub sem chok jong
And master love, compassion, and sublime bodhicitta.
den sung tong dang tenjung sengé dré
With the lion's roar of the truth of emptiness and interdependence,
yangdak tawé gangrir khyabpa dang
Cause the genuine view to spread throughout the land of snowy peaks,
namkhyen ku shyi gopang nyur tob shok
And let us swiftly attain the level of omniscience and the four kāyas.

dé ma tob kyi tserab tamché du
Until this time, throughout all our lives to come,
dal dang jorpé ten chok zangpo nyé
May we gain the supreme support of the freedoms and advantages,
tsé sö paljor lodrö rab pel shying
Expand our lifespan, merit, prosperity and intelligence,
yarab dramé ngang tsul la nepé
Increase our progeny and descendants, who maintain
rikgyü butsa pel shying chö nor gyi
Noble character and excellent disposition, and through dharma and resources
luk nyi pal gyi jorpar gyepar dzö
Bring the splendour of prosperity to the two traditions, spiritual and temporal.

jik chen gyé dang chudruk lasokpa
Please pacify the various forms of harm and adversity,
mitün nöpé tsok nam shyiwa dang
Such as the eight major and sixteen minor dangers.
pakma khyé nyi drenpa tsam gyi kyang
And Noble One, ensure that by merely recalling you
dögü sampa yishyin drubpa dang
We may fulfil our every wish and desire,
tashi gelek yar tso tar gyé shing
Expand our fortune, virtue and excellence like a lake in summer,
gang sam bemé lhün gyi drubpar shok
And effortlessly and spontaneously accomplish all that we aspire to.

yul chok dir yang dü kyi güpa shyi
Pacify all the ravages of time throughout this land,
dekyi kün gé dzokden sar du gyé
Usher in a new golden age of universal happiness and joy,
kyegu nam kyang pu nu tar tün shying
So that all beings live in fraternal and sororal harmony
taktu chok sum lamar dzinpar shok
And always take the three supreme jewels as our guide.

This is the blessed speech of Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 27–28