Seven-Branch Offering to Tārā
attributed to Bhikṣuṇī Lakṣmī (Gelongma Palmo)

1. Prostration
jetsün pakma drolma dang
To the Exalted Ārya, the Noble Lady Tārā,
chok chu dü sum shyukpa yi
And to all the victorious ones and their heirs
gyalwa sé ché tamché la
Dwelling in all directions of the universe, through past, present and future,
künné dangwé chak gyi o
Sincerely and enthusiastically I pay homage!
2. Offering
metok dukpö marmé dri
I make offerings of flowers, incense, lamps, fragrant scents,
shyalzé rolmo lasokpa
And food, and music, and the like —
ngöjor yi kyi trul né bul
Both physical and imaginary, created by the mind.
pakmé tsok nam shyé su sol
Assembly of Noble Ladies, please accept them all!
3. Confession
tokma mé né danté bar
All my negative deeds throughout beginningless time until today,
mi gé chu dang tsammé nga
The ten non-virtues and the five with immediate reckoning —
sem ni nyönmong wang gyurpé
Sprung from this mind that is driven by destructive emotions,
dikpa tamché shakpar gyi
I confess them all, each and every one.
4. Rejoicing
nyentö ranggyal changchub sem
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice in all the merits
soso kyewo lasokpé
Of śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas,
dü sum gewa chi sakpé
And every living being,
sönam la ni dak yi rang
Throughout the three times.
5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
semchen nam kyi sampa dang
I implore you: according to the temperament
lo yi jedrak jitawar
And mental capacity of sentient beings,
chechung tünmong tekpa yi
Please turn the wheel of Dharma
chö kyi khorlo kor du sol
Of all the vehicles — lesser, greater, and general.
6. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter nirvāṇa
khorwa jisi matongwar
Until saṃsāra has been completely emptied,
nya ngen mi da tukjé yi
I beseech you: do not pass into nirvāṇa,
dukngal gyatsor jingwa yi
But look upon us with your boundless compassion,
semchen nam la zik su sol
As we flounder in this ocean of suffering.
7. Dedication
dak gi sönam chi sakpa
May whatever virtue I have amassed
tamché changchub gyur gyur né
Become the cause of enlightenment for all;
ringpor mi tok drowa yi
May I quickly, without delay or deferment,
drenpé pal du dak gyur chik
Become an excellent guide to all beings.

This is said to have been composed by Bhikṣuṇī Lakṣmī (Gelongma Palmo).

| Translated by Stefan Mang, 2018. Edited by Libby Hogg.