The Concentration of Blessings
Red Tārā Lineage Prayer
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Guru deva ḍākinīye sarva siddhi phala hūṃ

shyi ying trödral chökü podrang né
From the dharmakāya palace of the ground’s basic space beyond complexity
dangpö sangye ö mingyurwa la
Manifests the primordial buddha Changeless Light—
nyimé dzindral ngang né solwa deb
Out of an experience of non-duality free from fixation, I pray to you:
döné yedrol chenpor jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize great primordial, ever present freedom.

rangshyin sal dang lhündrub podrang né
From the spontaneous palace of radiant natural clarity
longku pema gar gyi wangchuk la
Manifests the saṃbhogakāya Lotus Lord of the Dance—
yingrik yermé ngang né solwa deb
Out of the inseparability of space and awareness, I pray to you:
lhündrub gongpa ngöngyur jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the intent of spontaneous presence.

tukjé tsemé trulpé podrang né
From the emanational palace of immeasurable compassion
tulku jetsün arya taré la
Manifests the venerable nirmāṇakāya Ārya Tārā—
chakmé shyendral ngang né solwa deb
Out of a state beyond grasping and attachment, I pray to you:
gang dul drowa dulwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to train beings in the most appropriate ways.

rangnang ngayab palri shyalyé né
From the naturally present palace on Cāmara’s glorious mountain
ku sum dü shyal pema jungné la
Manifests Padmākara, face and embodiment of the three kāyas—
redok mepé ngang né solwa deb
Out of a state beyond hope and fear, I pray to you:
nangsi wang du duwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to bring appearance and existence under control.

samyé yeshe yangpé gyalkham né
From the vast domain of wisdom beyond imagining
ngadak tsangpa lha yi metok la
Manifests the sovereign lord Tsangpa Lhayi Metok1—
kadrin drenpé ngang né solwa deb
In recollection of your kindness, I pray to you:
drodul tenpa ta gyé jingyi lob
Inspire me to train beings and spread the teachings far and wide.

khachö dorjé tsünmö shyingkham na
In the celestial realm of the Khecarī Vajra Queen
yingchuk daki jnana saga rar
Is the ḍākinī Jñānasāgara,2 Lady of Space—
detong lodral ngang né solwa deb
Out of a state of bliss-emptiness beyond the mind, I pray to you:
ga shyi yeshe gyepar jingyi lob
Inspire me to develop the wisdom of the four joys.

u tsé rim sum trulpé podrang né
From the emanated palace of the Three-Storey Central Temple
lhasé damdzin chökyi lodrö la
Manifests Prince Damdzin Chökyi Lodrö3—
dé mö dungshuk drakpö solwa deb
Out of a state of intense and fervent devotion, I pray to you:
dro dön chokmé jungwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to bring benefit to beings on a limitless scale.

chokdral gar shyuk shyingkham rabjam na
In infinite realms beyond direction, wherever they may be,
bai ro lasok bang rik nyernga la
Are the twenty-five disciples, Vairotsana and the rest—
yiché dungwé shuk kyi solwa deb
With overwhelming confidence and trust, I pray to you:
dulja min ching drolwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to bring disciples to maturity and freedom.

lé mön zabsang chö kyi podrang na
In the dharma palace of profoundly secret karma and aspirations
ngadak ösal dorjé lingpa la
Is the sovereign lord Ösel Dorje Lingpa—
dé dam dudral mepar solwa deb
With devoted commitment beyond union and separation, I pray to you:
nakchok dön gek dulwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to overcome dark forces, harmful influences and obstacles.

dagam marpo wang gi shyalyé na
In the palace of power, red and semi-circular,
wang dzé lhamo cho ngé kyilkhor la
Is the maṇḍala of the fifteen goddesses of magnetizing—
kyedzok tawé ngang né solwa deb
From within the view of generation and completion, I pray to you:
rangrig lha dang yermé jingyi lob
Inspire me to realize the inseparability of the deity and my own awareness.

ka dang damtsik nyenpö shyalyé na
In the palace of commands and solemn pledges
gyü sum damchen chökyong sungma la
Are oath-bound dharma protectors and guardians of the three lineages—
mi yo gongpé ngang né solwa deb
From a state of unwavering intent, I pray to you:
trinlé nam shyi drubpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to accomplish the four types of activity.

rinchen dö jung tsekpé né chok na
In the supreme place where wish-fulfilling jewels are stored
nöjin norlha ter chang gyatso la
An ocean of treasure-keeping yakṣas and wealth deities reside—
dzin chak dralwé ngang né solwa deb
From a state free of clinging and attachment, I pray to you:
ulpong dukngal shyiwar jingyi lob
Inspire me to overcome the misery of loss and deprivation.

nangsi dakpa rabjam chenpo na
In the great, infinite purity of appearance and existence,
damtsik denpé dorjé checham la
Are the vajra brothers and sisters who maintain the samaya—
daknang zolmé ngang né solwa deb
Out of a state of unfeigned pure perception, I pray to you:
tsombu chik tu tsang gyajin gyi lob
Inspire us to awaken all together in a single gathering.

ngöndrö chö kyi ranggyü lek jong shing
May the preliminary dharmas thoroughly refine my character,
kyepé rimpé nangwa lha kur dak
The generation stage purify appearances into deities’ forms,
dejö ngak kyi dra tsik rang sar deng
The mantra recitation naturally transform sound and language,
dzokrim zab mö lungsem dakpar shok
And the profound perfection stage purify wind-energy and mind.

tsa yi dü drol lé lung umar tsü
May knots in the channels be released, karmic winds enter the central channel,
tiklé pomé namkhé khorlor tsek
And essences not dissipate but accumulate at the chakra of the sky.4
gyurmé dechen dorjé ku tob né
May I obtain the vajra kāya of immutable great bliss
drowé dön nyi lhündrub jungwar shok
And spontaneously bring twofold benefit to beings.

This lineage prayer for the Tārā of Power was spoken by Chökyi Lodrö, who holds the name of
an incarnation of Jamyang Khyentse, and written down by his student Tsewang Jorgyé, whose
mind is rich in faith. May this bring virtue and excellence!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source:  'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/. TBRC W1KG12986.
12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. Vol. 7: 275–277 & "dgos 'dod nor bu'i
rgyud las byung ba'i sgrub skor/" in A mgon rin po che. 'bri gung bka' brgyud chos mdzod
chen mo. TBRC W00JW501203. 151 vols. [Lhasa]: ['bri gung mthil dgon/], [2004] vol. 148: 234–237
↑ An alternative name for King Trisong Detsen↑ Jñānasāgara is Sanskrit for Yeshe Tsogyal.↑ alias
Murub Tsenpo, second son of Trisong Detsen↑ The sky chakra (nam mkha’i ‘khor lo) is the
chakra at the crown of the head.